- X-Ray helps developers **analyze and debug applications** that utilize **microservices** architecture
- **Distributed Tracing System**, it is a method used to profile and monitor apps, especially those built using a microservices architecture to pinpoint where failures occur and what causes poor performance.
- X-Ray Daemon is a software application that listens for traffic on UDP port 2000, gathers raw segment data, and relays it to the AWS X-Ray API. Data is generally not sent directly to the X-Ray API and passes through the X-Ray Daemon which uploads in bulk.
- **Segments** provide the resource's name, details about the request and details about the work done.
- **Subsegment** provide more granular timing information and details about downstream calls that your app made to fulfill the original request.
- **Service Graph** is a flow chart visualiztion of average response for microservices and to visually pinpoint failure.
- **Traces** collect all segmenet generated by a single request so you can track the path of requests through multiple services.
- **Sampling** is a algorithm that decides which requests should be traced. By default X-Ray SDK **records the first request each second and 5% of any additional requests**
- **Tracing Header** is named **X-Amzn-Trace-Id** and identifies a trace which passed along to downstream services.
- **Filter Expression** allows you to narrow down specific paths or users.
- **Group** allows save **Filter Expression** so you can quickly filter traces.
- **Annotations and Metadata** allow you to capture additional information in key-value pairs
  - Annotations are **indexed** for use with fitler expressions with a limit of 50
  - Metadata are **not indexed**. Use metadata to record data you want to store in the trace but don't need to use for searching traces.
- **Errors** are 400/4xx errors
- **Faults** are 500/5xx errors
- **Throttle** is 429 Too Many Requests
- X-Ray supports **AWS Service Integration** with the following: Lambda, API Gateway, App Mesh, CloudTrail, CloudWatch, AWS Config, EB, ELB, SNS, SQS, EC2, ECS, Fargate.
